*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK 65354 ***

                          _Lily SPEED-O-WEAVE_
                       LUNCHEON SET DESIGN No. 86


                            Made on a frame
                             EASY AND FAST
                           LEAFLET NO. 147-S




                       LUNCHEON SET DESIGN No. 86


    [Illustration: Figure 1]

    [Illustration: Figure 2
    (FRAME OPENED—for center piece pattern. Shows second operation)]

    [Illustration: Figure 3]

    [Illustration: Figure 4]


                               MATERIALS:

  1 Lily Speed-O-Weave Frame
  Lily Crochet Cottons or
  Lily Handweaving Yarns

This luncheon set, illustrated on back page, is made of one color which
is the simplest type of work that can be done on the frame, yet the
results are most pleasing. The set consists of a center piece, and four
or six smaller pieces. The center piece is made with the frame adjusted
to the shape shown in Fig. 2. The smaller pieces are made with the frame
in the form shown in Figures 1 and 3. Figure 1 shows a frame partially
wound with the thread lying in one direction. Figure 2 shows a frame
partially wound with the threads extending in two directions. Figure 3
shows a frame completely wound with the threads extending in three
different directions, and ready to be tied. Figure 4 shows complete
piece.

Throughout these instructions, the corner prongs are always designated
as No. 1 prongs.

To commence the winding, the thread is first tied to No. 3 prong on side
C, Figure 1. It is then extended to prong 3 on side A, Figure 1. The
thread is wound back and forth on these prongs until there are twelve
threads between the prongs. The thread is then wound in a similar manner
around the next pair of prongs immediately above, and so on, until the
third last set of prongs is reached. These threads will all lie parallel
to each other, and to two sides of the frame.

The thread is then carried around the outside of the adjacent corner to
the third prong from the corner. The thread is then wound around that
prong to the corresponding prong on the opposite side. A similar number
of threads are extended between each pair of prongs, so that the threads
lie parallel to the second pair of sides of the frame.

The winding of the thread in the third position is similar, except that
it is wound parallel with the third pair of sides of the frame. This
results in the frame being wound in three directions with twelve threads
extending between each pair of prongs in each direction.

                         12 Petal Daisy Design

    [Illustration: STEP ONE—in winding frame for twelve-petal daisy
    design.]

    [Illustration: SECOND STEP—in winding frame for twelve-petal daisy
    design.]

    [Illustration: THIRD STEP—in winding frame for twelve-petal daisy
    design.]

The whole process is then repeated: that is, twelve more threads are
wound between each pair of prongs in each of three directions, as
aforesaid, making a total of 24 threads extending between each pair of
prongs. If a heavier mat is desired, another layer of twelve threads may
be added.

When all this has been done, the thread may be tied to the final prong
and then cut off. The frame is now ready to be sewed. This is where the
shuttle is put into use. As much thread as can be conveniently held by
the shuttle is wound upon it, and a foot or so allowed to hang from it.
This loose end of the thread is then tied around a corner intersection
of three groups of threads on the frame, from the back, and fastened
securely.

If you will now study Figure 3, you will find that it is possible to
make three distinct loops around these intersections and to tie them
from the back of the frame by means of half-hitches. As each one of
these intersections is sewed or tied, the craftsman should move
clockwise to the next intersection of three groups of threads and repeat
the operation around the frame. When the first round has been completed,
skip over to the second round and repeat at the end of each round: in
this way it will be found unnecessary to break the thread at any time.
In fact, the only time that it should be necessary to tie a knot in the
thread is when the shuttle is empty. The proper procedure then, is to
refill the shuttle and tie the new end to the end of the thread finished
and continue sewing.

When the entire frame has been tied, the finished article is removed by
simply cutting through the thread as near to the prongs as is possible,
with a pair of sharp scissors. Comb out the fringe thus formed and trim
evenly.

    [Illustration: Frame wound to illustrate one step in winding frame
    for design suitable for pillow case or vanity set.]

    [Illustration: Frame wound to illustrate another step in winding
    frame for design suitable for pillow case or vanity set.]

    [Illustration: Frame completely wound—for twelve-petal daisy design.
    (This illustration shows frame extended for buffet or vanity set
    centerpieces—or centerpieces for luncheon set.)]




                         _SPEED-O-WEAVE_ FRAME


    [Illustration: _SPEED-O-WEAVE_ FRAME]

    [Illustration: The Lily SPEED-O-WEAVE frame is packed in a
    box—complete with adjusting bolts and shuttle. (Shuttle is pictured
    at right). Frame consists of six angular sections, each section
    being provided with a plurality of prongs or fingers adapted to hold
    the threads. The sections are provided with holes through which
    bolts, secured by wing nuts, are extended to hold the several
    sections together.]

    [Illustration: The frame is assembled from six pieces of angle
    steel, light, sturdy, easily adjusted to various sizes ... green
    lacquer finish. Complete with adjusting bolts and shuttle.

    Adjustable To 20 Shapes]


                      Many Variations Are Possible

The SPEED-O-WEAVE frame is adjustable to over twenty different sizes and
shapes, and the number and variety of pieces it is possible to make by
this method is almost unlimited. A few are: luncheon sets, chair sets,
doilies, bedspreads, dresser scarfs, pillow tops, handbags, pot holders
and dish cloths. It is also possible to do several different types of
weaving on the one frame. Endless variations of each type can be
achieved by interweaving colored threads to produce colored patterns.
The simplest form of work possible on the frame consists of single piece
sets with a fringe. In making blocks for joining, as in a bedspread or
any large article, the blocks are made without a fringe in order to
facilitate sewing them together.


                           No Skill Required!

SPEED-O-WEAVE—or Hexagonal Weaving—is fast becoming one of the most
popular of hand-crafts. This is due, no doubt, to its extreme simplicity
and to the fact that it is both inexpensive and very quickly learned.
For making SPEED-O-WEAVE designs many yarns or crochet threads can be
used. For luncheon cloths, doilies, pillow tops, etc., the finer threads
may be used. For rugs, bedspreads, hot dish mats, etc., the heavier
yarns would be more appropriate.

Reduced to its simplest formula, Hexagonal Weaving, as done on Lily’s
SPEED-O-WEAVE frame, is simply the winding of threads back and forth on
the prongs or fingers of the frame in such a manner, that the threads
lie parallel to three sides of the frame. If the threads are wound
parallel to three sides of the frame, they will automatically be
parallel with the remaining three sides of the frame, because of the
manner in which the frame is constructed. After the threads have been
wound in three directions on the frame, they are tied together at their
intersections, to effect a complete article.

    [Illustration: Multiple-color designs]

    [Illustration: LUNCHEON SET No. 86

    An attractive Luncheon Set made on Lily’s SPEED-O-WEAVE frame.
    Directions for making are inside folder.]




                          Transcriber’s Notes


—Silently corrected a few typos.

—Retained publication information from the printed edition: this eBook
  is public-domain in the country of publication.

—In the text versions only, text in italics is delimited by
  _underscores_.

*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK 65354 ***
